As Mayor, I am pleased to present this evening Beacon’s “State of the City” to the City Council,
to our audience listening tonight, and to all our residents. I’d like to use this as an opportunity
to highlight our achievements in the past year and to outline our goals for the coming one.
In a word, the State of the City remains excellent – with 2024 bringing a new central fire station
and major investments, while maintaining our solid financial position. What makes this so
amazing is how far our City has come in the last 30 years or so – transforming from a tired
factory city to a reimagined one, with a reinvigorated historic Main Street and a quality of life
that attracts newcomers, investment and visitors – a beacon for other communities to follow.
As I enter my sixth year as Mayor, let me begin by thanking the community for placing its
confidence in me. I look forward to working with the entire Council to continue building upon
not only last year’s successes but also the decades of efforts of prior mayors and councils.
As I have said in prior State of the City presentations, my overall commitments to you as Mayor
of our City include the following:
1. Financial Discipline: Minimizing property tax increases, by prioritizing city expenses,
and finding non-property tax revenue sources.
2. Public Safety: Modernizing our firefighting infrastructure; attracting and retaining our
first responders.
3. Infrastructure Investment: Continuing the modernization of our roads, sidewalks,
water supply, and wastewater treatment.
4. Quality of Life: Investing in our parks, our recreation programs and other efforts that
improve our day-to-day quality of life.
5. Climate Leadership: Cost effectively making our community an environmentally
sustainable one.
6. Good Government: Running a professional, effective and open government.
I will review our accomplishments in each of these areas in 2024, and our plans for 2025.
1. Financial Discipline. Beacon’s financial health remains the best it has been in the decades.
We have undertaken some major capital projects – fire station, roads and sidewalks, water and
wastewater, parks and quality of life, plus investing in our people – while keeping property tax
increases modest. This has required fiscal discipline and prioritization, managing new private
construction that increases our tax base, and finding non-property tax sources of funding.
• 2025 City Budget: The Mayor proposed and the City Council passed a $35.9 million
combined operating budget for 2025. 
State of the City 2025 2
o Lower Tax Rate: The City’s tax rate fell to $5.70 per $1,000 of assessed value –
the lowest rate since 2009. For comparison, that tax rate is over $10 for the
cities of Poughkeepsie and Newburgh. We expect to continue lowering the City’s
tax rate with new construction and increases in value of existing properties – to
make sure that residents are not overburdened.
o Modest Overall Tax Increase: The City’s 2025 total tax levy of $13.2 million was
an annual increase of 3.8%, well below inflation and the State Property Tax Cap.
For comparison, the cities of Poughkeepsie and Kingston enacted 9% increases.
• Higher Sales Tax Revenue: As most of you know, I negotiated a 10-year sales tax
sharing agreement with the County starting in 2023. Beacon’s share of County-wide
sales taxes in 2024 was a record $6.1 million; it’s up $1.3 million from two years ago –
equivalent to 10% of our property tax revenue.
• Revenue from New Construction: The City and taxpayers continue to benefit from new
property construction and renovations, which added $37 million last year to Beacon’s
tax base, and $178 million in the past five years. These contribute new property tax
revenue – the equivalent of a 1.5-2.0% of property taxes citywide – which reduces the
property tax burden of current taxpayers.
• New Revenue Sources: The Mayor’s 2025 Budget added two new revenue sources to
help reduce pressure on property taxes – a 2% occupancy tax on hotels and short-term
rentals, and a share of the state cannabis tax from dispensaries in the City.
• Fiscal Management: The Mayor, City Administrator and Finance Director spend much
of our time focusing on the City’s finances – seeking non-property tax sources of
revenue, prioritizing and timing our spending, and borrowing only what we need to with
the City’s strong Aa2 Moody’s bond rating that lowers borrowing costs.
2. High Quality Public Safety. Beacon continues to provide a safe community, with a great first
responder team that provides rapid response times for police, fire and ambulance services.
• Central Fire Station. Our largest accomplishment of 2024 was the on-time, on-budget
opening of the City’s new $15 million fire station. After more than 20 years of studies
and debate, I required the reuse of the 1980s Tompkins Hose firehouse, trimmed down
to the essentials, and negotiated new sales tax revenue. This not only minimized
property tax funding, but let us invest in an all-electric facility with geothermal heat, and
in a beautiful and historically appropriate brick façade at the gateway to Main Street.
In November, I was honored to join elected officials and almost 300 residents for a
ribbon cutting and community celebration. The station houses all our firefighters in one
location with state-of-the-art equipment – which has already improved operations,
training and safety. It also honors the proud history of our three volunteer companies
with memorials in front of the building and displays of extensive memorabilia inside. In
2025, we will be selling our two obsolete firehouses, which is essential for financing a
portion of our new one – with protections to ensure historic preservation. We will also 
State of the City 2025 3
be seeking to replace our current ladder truck, which, while not yet outdated, is costing
more than expected to maintain.
• Police: We added another civilian police dispatcher in 2024, which is both cost-effective
and frees up officers to be out in the community. That said, our Police Department has
many vacancies – a national issue, with retirements and attrition outpacing recruitment
and training. We were able to promote many of our existing officers, including the
appointment of our new Chief, Tom Figlia. Working with our senior officers and police
union, the City is pursuing ways to attract and retain officers, including increased pay
and other benefits. These efforts are starting to pay off, as we are slowly filling
openings, but also incurring higher overtime expense in the interim.
• EMS: The City provided its second year of funding for BVAC (Beacon Volunteer
Ambulance Corps), and advanced life support services from Ambulnz. We continue to
work with both to improve capacity and maintain excellent response times.
3. Record Infrastructure Investment. Over the past four years, the City has implemented or
advanced more than $40 million in major capital investments for our public facilities. We
continue to methodically modernize and improve our century-old infrastructure, with phased
timing of project expenses and maximizing non-property tax funding.
• Rebuilding Fishkill/Teller Avenue. The other major project of 2024 was finally
completing preparations and launching the rehabilitation of Teller and Fishkill Avenues.
This effort dates back to 2001, and had City Administrator Chris White not prioritized
the time-intensive right-of-way acquisition process and final engineering design, we
would have lost $9 million in federal/state funding. The work is more than half
complete and on time – despite unexpected below-ground discoveries – and is slated
for completion by the Summer of 2025.
• Roads & Sidewalks: In 2024, our Highway Department milled and repaved 28 streets
(4.25 miles), continuing our yearly cycle of systematic repaving. We installed 34 ADA
curb ramps, sidewalks on West Center Street, and rebuilt the exterior staircases at City
Hall from Beekman up to Main. In 2025, we will extend sidewalks and repave Route 52
to the City limit, rebuild the Wolcott Avenue sidewalk along South Ave. Park, repave
more streets plus the parking lots at Memorial Park and Van Nydeck, and continue to
stripe side streets off Main Street to improve parking.
• Water & Sewer: The Water Department began a citywide water meter replacement
project in 2024, installing “smart” meters that allow the City and residents to monitor
water usage online. We also continued to modernize the City’s aging sewer system
with the construction of a new West Main pump station and force main, and rebuilt the
box culvert for water runoff under Washington Avenue. We will complete these
projects in 2025, and begin replacement of the Mount Beacon water supply tank.
• Wastewater Plant & Transfer Station: In 2024, we upgraded the Wastewater
Treatment Plant’s primary settling tanks, and renovated staff locker room and showers. 
State of the City 2025 4
We also did a full window replacement and clean-out of our recycling center / old
incinerator building. In 2025, we will replace the wastewater dewatering system and
aeration blower; we just completed its roof replacement at a substantial cost savings.
• City Hall / Court Building. This year we are making improvements to our municipal
building – using City staff to save cost – including renovating the Police locker room and
dispatch area, exterior and interior painting, and reconfiguring the City’s clerk window.
• Dummy Light: Our much-loved and much-rammed Dummy Light survived the year
intact. Maybe all the striping and signage helped.
4. Enhanced Quality of Life: We continued to increase the programming budget and make
capital investments in parks and recreation, as well as other aspects of our community’s quality
of life – funded in large part from new construction that adds to our property tax base and
provides recreation fees. With careful planning and community input, we continue to steer our
zoning and planning processes to make Beacon a sustainable and livable city.
• Memorial Building: With our veterans, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the
City’s Memorial Building on Main at Teller. This is the only municipal building in the
region built and maintained to honor veterans. We have forged a great partnership
with veteran groups, winning substantial outside grants to modernize the building, and
more extensive use of it by veterans and the entire community. Expect more events in
2025 and 2026 as we approach our nation’s 250th birthday.
• Recreation & Parks Budget: The City’s 2024 spending on Recreation and Parks
exceeded $1,000,000 for the first time ever, which included a new full-time staff
member. Ten years ago, it just over $300,000. This prioritization of tax dollars has
afforded a large expansion of programs for youth, seniors and the community. Plus,
those numbers do not include large capital spending to upgrade our parks.
• Park Investments: 2024 saw the reconstruction of the Wee Play toddler playground in
Memorial Park, with new play structures, surfacing, fencing and site amenities. In 2025,
at South Ave Park we will refurbish tennis and basketball courts, and install public
bathrooms; Memorial Park will see upgrades to the skate park, fencing and parking.
• Main Street: Last Fall, our Main Street was one of three in New York named as the
cleanest Main Streets in America. This recognition complements Beacon’s “Walkers
Paradise” listing, where we received a walkability score of 96 out of 100.
• Beacon Rail Trail: At the City’s urging, Dutchess County Planning is engaged in a
feasibility study to convert the Beacon-Hopewell rail spur into a rail trail. We are
encouraged that this study will build momentum for the next steps of engineering
design and funding. I have made the Rail Trail my top priority for 2025, and am excited
at the prospect of a rail trail connecting our waterfront and Main Street to the 700-mile
Empire State Trail system.
State of the City 2025 5
• Fjord Trail to Cold Spring: As Mayor, I recently testified on my strong support of the
proposed Fjord Trail from Beacon to Breakneck Ridge (and maybe to Cold Spring). The
City is partnering with the Fjord Trail for them to build a trail maintenance facility at our
Transfer Station. Our partnership will help to accelerate trail construction in Beacon,
which will connect to our parks, trails and train station.
• Route 52 Concepts Committee: This Committee has made progress on envisioning how
Route 52 will shift gradually from largely commercial and industrial uses to include more
mixed residential and retail uses. That includes planning for connections to the directly
adjacent Rail Trail, and an access road to our schools and Camp Beacon area.
• Encouraging Housing and Affordability. Dutchess County Planning has recognized that
Beacon continues to do more than its fair share to improve housing and affordability in
Dutchess County, with almost 30% of Beacon’s rental units in affordable programs
(second only to the City of Poughkeepsie). We have encouraged the County to look at
developing part of its DMV lot on Main Street to include affordable units. The State has
recognized Beacon as a Pro-Housing Community, opening up funding options. Metro
North is reviewing proposals to build housing on top of its north parking lot – fully
consistent with current zoning, with 10% of units with below market rents. In addition,
New York State has just announced that Beacon qualified for State funding for
homeowners to build accessory dwelling units under the Plus-One ADU program.
5. Climate Leadership. As lifelong environmentalists, Chris and I are committed to making
Beacon a cost-effective model of sustainability in the Hudson Valley. Beacon was one of the
first (and one of only 15 of 1,600 local governments in New York) to achieve the State’s highest
Silver-Certified Climate Smart Community status – which gives us access to grants that fund
additional sustainability efforts.
• Highway Garage Solar / 100% Renewable Electric: In 2025, we expect to install a
photovoltaic system atop the City’s Highway Garage to add to the City’s self-generated
electric capacity. The City generates over 70% of its electric needs from solar arrays,
and purchases Renewable energy Credits for the rest.
• Green Municipal Fleet / EV Charging Stations: The City will continue to grow its allelectric and hybrid fleet in 2025, taking advantage of State Climate Smart grants to
finance the purchases. We added EV charging stations at our fire station lot, and this
year will see additional chargers installed at other municipal sites.
• Green Central Fire Station: Our central fire station is fully environmentally sustainable
– one of the first regionally with all-electric, high efficiency insulation, geothermal
heating/cooling, and natural lighting.
• Municipal Composting: In the past year, we’ve continued to grow our popular
municipal composting program. We increased the number of composting toters, wash
them each week at pickup, and provided clearer instructions. 
State of the City 2025 6
• Trees & Pollinators: In 2024 we earned our longstanding status as a Tree City, planting
55 trees, including a new program for property owners to purchase and plant trees at a
large discount. We also expanded our pollinator footprint, with a 2,500 square feet of
pollinator patch in front of the City’s Hiddenbrooke rural park.
6. Good Government: All the above projects could not have been done without the ongoing
effort of our City’s workforce and managers, who have saved taxpayers hundreds of thousands
of dollars – by preparing building sites, doing in-house renovations, and managing effectively.
Chris and I are committed to providing residents of Beacon with a professionally-run city – one
that uses taxpayer funds effectively, provides superior infrastructure and services, is responsive
to residents, that empowers department managers, and develops our employees.
• Labor Relations: The City Administrator and I have a strong collaborative relationship
with our employees and three unions. In late 2024, we negotiated a new three-year
contract with CSEA for half the City’s workforce. In light of higher inflation in 2021 and
2022, this agreement provides a sizeable three-year salary increase. In 2025, the City
will be negotiating new contracts with our police and fire unions.
• Attracting Quality Workforce: Our investments in staff and management style are
paying off, as the City is becoming known as a local employer of choice. That allows us
to attract and hire strong and motivated candidates. Our new City Planner joined in
2024, and our full-time HR Director continues to improve workforce policies, training
and support. We are in midst of hiring a new Building Inspector, and expect first
responder hires to come.
• Transparency: Beacon continues to record, livestream and air on cable all Council ,
Planning and Zoning board meetings. We regularly share City news on our website, with
the press, and via social media/YouTube. That makes us a leader in the region for our
accessibility, inclusion and transparency. We are here to serve you.
Final Words. As I said at the start, the state of Beacon remains excellent. Together we have
accomplished much during my five-plus years as Mayor, and I look forward to the goals we
have laid out for 2025.
I want to thank our City Council, the employees of the City, including our department heads,
and our City Administrator, who make it all happen, as well as all the residents who volunteer
their time for the City and the community in so many ways.
The focus of my community service across more than three decades has been the City of
Beacon – 18 years as a City Councilman and now my sixth year as Mayor. It is an honor to serve
the community I love. Onward.